---
title: Guitar N°3
description: Guitar designed and hadcrafted by me
img: 'img/works/guitar/guitar-front-close.jpeg'
year: '2020'

images1:
    - img/works/guitar/guitar-back.jpeg
    - img/works/guitar/guitar-angle.jpeg

details:
    - img/works/guitar/guitar-headstock.jpeg
    - img/works/guitar/guitar-angle-close.jpeg

process:
    - img/works/guitar/guitar-neck-carving.jpeg
    - img/works/guitar/guitar-body.jpeg
    - img/works/guitar/guitar-body-neck.jpeg
---

:image-container{:images="images1"}

## A guitar designed and built from scratch by me

After already building a couple of guitars based on already existing models, I
wanted to create something unique. Designing my own guitar and building it from
scratch allowed me to do things that no other guitars have. The goal was to
create a one-of-a-kind instrument using as little ready-made materials and parts
as possible.

The end result is not only a high-quality instrument built exactly for my needs
but also a work of art showcasing refined and understated functionality,
artisanal craftsmanship and attention to detail.

###

:image-container{:images="details"}

### Design & Materials

The guitar has a short scale (22.5") making it really playful and easy to play.
This combined with brass hardware gives the guitar a beautifully soft and warm,
yet full sound. The strings extend behind the bridge. This creates some weird
yet beautiful overtones and "third bridge" harmonics while playing. They also
double as a harp-like instrument to add to the playing.

The body is made from reclaimed black alder wood from my grandfather, and
finished with handmade casein paint, giving it a unique and organic aesthetic.
The neck is made from a leftover piece of maple with a subtle unexpected flaming
effect, adding a touch of visual interest.

The hardware is made from scrap pieces of brass, steel, and other repurposed
materials, lending the guitar a distinct character and a sense of ingenuity.
Pickup is a custom widerange humbucker handmade by Rautia Guitars.

###

:image-container{:images="process"}

[Photo album](https://flic.kr/s/aHsmRy2A6v)
